content/docs/features.mdx, before:

---
title: Features Overview
description: Comprehensive overview of LangQuest's core features and capabilities
---

# LangQuest Features Overview

LangQuest provides a comprehensive suite of features designed specifically for collaborative text translation and language preservation. This page details the core capabilities that make LangQuest an effective platform for community-driven translation efforts.

## Core Platform Features

### Projects and Quests

**Projects** serve as the organizational backbone of LangQuest, allowing communities to structure their translation efforts around specific books, chapters, or thematic content.

- **Project Management**: Create and manage translation projects with customizable settings
- **Member Management**: Control who can participate in translation efforts
- **Content Organization**: Structure resources hierarchically for efficient workflow
- **Progress Tracking**: Monitor translation completion and quality metrics

**Quests** break down projects into manageable translation tasks, making the work more accessible and gamified.

- **Task Assignment**: Individual translation challenges within larger projects
- **Difficulty Levels**: Varied complexity to accommodate different skill levels
- **Achievement System**: Rewards for completing translation milestones

### Multimedia Asset Support

LangQuest recognizes that effective Bible translation requires rich contextual information beyond just text.

#### Text Assets
- Source text passages in original languages
- Reference translations for comparison
- Commentary and cultural context notes
- Linguistic annotations and grammatical notes

#### Audio Assets
- Original language audio for pronunciation guidance
- Multiple dialect variations where available
- Audio quality standards for consistent playback
- Recording capabilities for target language audio

#### Image Assets
- Cultural and historical context imagery
- Maps and geographical references
- Illustrations for complex concepts
- Visual aids for abstract concepts

### Translation and Voting System

The heart of LangQuest's collaborative approach lies in its peer-validation system.

#### Translation Submission
- **Text Translations**: Direct text input with formatting support
- **Audio Translations**: Voice recording with quality validation
- **Draft Management**: Save and revise translations before submission
- **Version Control**: Track changes and maintain translation history

#### Peer Validation
- **Community Voting**: Transparent quality assessment by peers
- **Weighted Scoring**: Experience-based vote weighting
- **Consensus Building**: Multiple approval thresholds for different content types
- **Appeal Process**: Mechanism for disputed translations

#### Quality Assurance
- **Review Cycles**: Multi-stage validation process
- **Expert Review**: Optional professional linguist validation
- **Consistency Checking**: Automated term consistency verification
- **Style Guide Compliance**: Adherence to translation standards

## Engagement and Motivation

### Gamification Elements

LangQuest incorporates game-like elements to maintain long-term engagement in translation projects.

#### Current Implementation
- **Progress Tracking**: Visual progress bars for quests and projects based on translation approvals and user contributions.
- **Vote-Based Scoring**: Translations earn points based on community votes, with visual indicators like gems for successful contributions.

#### Planned Features
See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming advanced gamification features like full scoring systems, achievements, badges, and leaderboards.

## Accessibility and Offline Support

### Mobile-First Design

LangQuest is designed primarily for mobile devices, recognizing that many target communities primarily access the internet through smartphones.

- **Responsive Interface**: Optimized for various screen sizes
- **Touch-First Navigation**: Intuitive gesture-based controls
- **Minimal Data Usage**: Efficient content delivery for limited bandwidth
- **Progressive Web App**: App-like experience without app store requirements

### Offline Functionality

Critical for communities with limited or intermittent internet connectivity.

#### Current Implementation
- **Content Caching**: Predictive download of content and selective sync for offline access.
- **Background Updates**: Automatic sync when connectivity is available.

#### Planned Features
See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming peer-to-peer collaboration features like local network sync and Bluetooth transfer.

### Multilingual Support

LangQuest supports a wide range of interface languages to accommodate diverse global communities.

- **Interface Localization**: Native language menus and instructions
- **Right-to-Left Support**: Proper display for Arabic, Hebrew, and other RTL scripts
- **Font Support**: Unicode compliance for all supported writing systems
- **Input Methods**: Specialized keyboards for complex scripts

## Security and Privacy

### Anonymous Registration

LangQuest prioritizes user privacy, especially in sensitive environments. Specific registration methods are not publicly detailed to protect user security.

### App Security Features

See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming advanced security measures.

### Data Protection

- **End-to-End Encryption**: Secure communication between participants
- **Distributed Storage**: No single point of failure for translation data
- **Open Source Transparency**: Auditable codebase for security verification
- **GDPR Compliance**: European data protection standard adherence

## Community Building

### Social Features

- **User Profiles**: Showcase contributions and expertise
- **Mentorship System**: Experienced translators guide newcomers
- **Discussion Forums**: Community conversation about translation challenges
- **Cultural Exchange**: Learn about different perspectives on translated texts

### Collaboration Tools

- **Real-time Collaboration**: Simultaneous editing capabilities
- **Comment System**: Contextual discussion on specific translations
- **Suggestion Mode**: Propose improvements to existing translations
- **Expert Consultation**: Request help from experienced community members

## Technical Features

### API and Integration

- **REST API**: Programmatic access for external tools
- **Webhook Support**: Real-time notifications for external systems
- **Export Capabilities**: Download translations in standard formats
- **Import Tools**: Bulk upload of existing translation resources

### Analytics and Reporting

- **Progress Dashboards**: Visual representation of translation completion
- **Quality Metrics**: Statistical analysis of translation accuracy
- **Community Health**: Engagement and participation analytics
- **Performance Optimization**: Platform usage and efficiency metrics

---

*Interested in experiencing these features? Start with our [User Guide](/docs/user-guide) to learn how to register and begin contributing to translation projects.*

Commit message:

📝 Update dependencies and improve documentation
- Updated package versions in package.json and pnpm-lock.yaml for fumadocs packages and next.js.
- Enhanced TypeScript configuration in tsconfig.json for better module resolution and JSX support.
- Revised layout imports in layout.tsx to align with new fumadocs-ui structure.
- Expanded documentation in features.mdx and project-membership.mdx to include new social features and project management instructions.
- Updated user-guide.mdx to reflect recent changes in recording and project management processes.
- Incremented version in developer documentation to v2.0.11.

content/docs/features.mdx, after:

---
title: Features Overview
description: Comprehensive overview of LangQuest's core features and capabilities
---

# LangQuest Features Overview

LangQuest provides a comprehensive suite of features designed specifically for collaborative text translation and language preservation. This page details the core capabilities that make LangQuest an effective platform for community-driven translation efforts.

## Core Platform Features

### Projects and Quests

**Projects** serve as the organizational backbone of LangQuest, allowing communities to structure their translation efforts around specific books, chapters, or thematic content.

- **Project Management**: Create and manage translation projects with customizable settings
- **Member Management**: Control who can participate in translation efforts
- **Content Organization**: Structure resources hierarchically for efficient workflow
- **Progress Tracking**: Monitor translation completion and quality metrics

**Quests** break down projects into manageable translation tasks, making the work more accessible and gamified.

- **Task Assignment**: Individual translation challenges within larger projects
- **Difficulty Levels**: Varied complexity to accommodate different skill levels
- **Achievement System**: Rewards for completing translation milestones

### Multimedia Asset Support

LangQuest recognizes that effective Bible translation requires rich contextual information beyond just text.

#### Text Assets
- Source text passages in original languages
- Reference translations for comparison
- Commentary and cultural context notes
- Linguistic annotations and grammatical notes

#### Audio Assets
- Original language audio for pronunciation guidance
- Multiple dialect variations where available
- Audio quality standards for consistent playback
- Recording capabilities for target language audio

#### Image Assets
- Cultural and historical context imagery
- Maps and geographical references
- Illustrations for complex concepts
- Visual aids for abstract concepts

### Translation and Voting System

The heart of LangQuest's collaborative approach lies in its peer-validation system.

#### Translation Submission
- **Text Translations**: Direct text input with formatting support
- **Audio Translations**: Voice recording with quality validation
- **Draft Management**: Save and revise translations before submission
- **Version Control**: Track changes and maintain translation history

#### Peer Validation
- **Community Voting**: Transparent quality assessment by peers
- **Weighted Scoring**: Experience-based vote weighting
- **Consensus Building**: Multiple approval thresholds for different content types
- **Appeal Process**: Mechanism for disputed translations

#### Quality Assurance
- **Review Cycles**: Multi-stage validation process
- **Expert Review**: Optional professional linguist validation
- **Consistency Checking**: Automated term consistency verification
- **Style Guide Compliance**: Adherence to translation standards

## Engagement and Motivation

### Gamification Elements

LangQuest incorporates game-like elements to maintain long-term engagement in translation projects.

#### Current Implementation
- **Progress Tracking**: Visual progress bars for quests and projects based on translation approvals and user contributions.
- **Vote-Based Scoring**: Translations earn points based on community votes, with visual indicators like gems for successful contributions.

#### Planned Features
See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming advanced gamification features like full scoring systems, achievements, badges, and leaderboards.

## Accessibility and Offline Support

### Mobile-First Design

LangQuest is designed primarily for mobile devices, recognizing that many target communities primarily access the internet through smartphones.

- **Responsive Interface**: Optimized for various screen sizes
- **Touch-First Navigation**: Intuitive gesture-based controls
- **Minimal Data Usage**: Efficient content delivery for limited bandwidth
- **Progressive Web App**: App-like experience without app store requirements

### Offline Functionality

Critical for communities with limited or intermittent internet connectivity.

#### Current Implementation
- **Content Caching**: Predictive download of content and selective sync for offline access.
- **Background Updates**: Automatic sync when connectivity is available.

#### Planned Features
See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming peer-to-peer collaboration features like local network sync and Bluetooth transfer.

### Multilingual Support

LangQuest supports a wide range of interface languages to accommodate diverse global communities.

- **Interface Localization**: Native language menus and instructions
- **Right-to-Left Support**: Proper display for Arabic, Hebrew, and other RTL scripts
- **Font Support**: Unicode compliance for all supported writing systems
- **Input Methods**: Specialized keyboards for complex scripts

## Security and Privacy

### Anonymous Registration

LangQuest prioritizes user privacy, especially in sensitive environments. Specific registration methods are not publicly detailed to protect user security.

### App Security Features

See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming advanced security measures.

### Data Protection

- **End-to-End Encryption**: Secure communication between participants
- **Distributed Storage**: No single point of failure for translation data
- **Open Source Transparency**: Auditable codebase for security verification
- **GDPR Compliance**: European data protection standard adherence

## Community Building

### Social Features

- **User Profiles**: Showcase contributions and expertise
- **Project Membership**: Invite team members to collaborate on projects
- **Cloud Sync**: Upload chapters to the cloud for team collaboration

### Planned Social Features

See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for upcoming community features:

- **Mentorship System**: Experienced translators guide newcomers
- **Discussion Forums**: Community conversation about translation challenges
- **Cultural Exchange**: Learn about different perspectives on translated texts

### Collaboration Tools

- **Real-time Collaboration**: Simultaneous editing capabilities
- **Comment System**: Contextual discussion on specific translations
- **Suggestion Mode**: Propose improvements to existing translations
- **Expert Consultation**: Request help from experienced community members

## Technical Features (Planned)

See the [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap) for details on upcoming technical features:

### API and Integration (Planned)

- **REST API**: Programmatic access for external tools
- **Webhook Support**: Real-time notifications for external systems
- **Export Capabilities**: Download translations in standard formats
- **Import Tools**: Bulk upload of existing translation resources

### Analytics and Reporting (Planned)

- **Progress Dashboards**: Visual representation of translation completion
- **Quality Metrics**: Statistical analysis of translation accuracy
- **Community Health**: Engagement and participation analytics
- **Performance Optimization**: Platform usage and efficiency metrics

---

*Interested in experiencing these features? Start with our [User Guide](/docs/user-guide) to learn the basics of using LangQuest for your translation projects.*
