content/docs/roadmap.mdx, before:

---
title: Roadmap
description: Current status of LangQuest features and planned developments
---

# LangQuest Roadmap

This page provides an overview of implemented features, those in development, and planned enhancements. We prioritize user safety and update this regularly.

## Implemented Features
- Core translation and voting system
- Multimedia asset support (text, audio, images)
- Basic offline functionality with caching
- Project and quest management
- Basic gamification (progress tracking and vote-based scoring)
- User profiles and authentication

## In Development
- Enhanced offline P2P collaboration
- Advanced security measures for sensitive environments
- Full gamification (leaderboards, badges)
- Real-time collaboration tools

## Planned Features
- API integrations and webhooks
- Advanced analytics dashboards
- Community forums and mentorship
- Expanded multilingual support
- Advanced Gamification: Full scoring system (rewards for submissions, validation, streaks), achievements and badges (milestones, quality awards, specialist recognition), leaderboards (global, project-specific, skill-based)
- Peer-to-Peer Collaboration: Local network sync, Bluetooth transfer, mesh networking, conflict resolution
- App Security Enhancements: Advanced measures for sensitive environments (details available upon request)

## Planned Documentation
- Getting Started: Basic concepts and first steps
- Platform Overview: Understanding projects, quests, and assets
- Mobile App Guide: Mobile-specific features and offline functionality
- Troubleshooting: Common issues and solutions
- Project Management: Creating and managing translation projects
- Community Building: Growing and engaging your translation community
- Quality Control: Managing translation validation and voting
- API Documentation: Integration and development resources
- Contributing: How to contribute to LangQuest development

For the latest updates, check our changelog or contact the team securely.

Commit message:

update site content to better communicate direction and design

content/docs/roadmap.mdx, after:

---
title: Roadmap
description: Current status of LangQuest features and planned developments
---

# LangQuest Roadmap

This page provides an overview of implemented features, those in development, and planned enhancements. We prioritize user safety and update this regularly.

## Implemented Features
- Core translation and voting system (text and audio)
- Vote comments for contextual feedback on translations
- Multimedia asset support (text, audio, images)
- Offline-first functionality: quest downloads, local storage, background sync
- Project and quest management (public and private projects)
- Content moderation: reporting and blocking of users and translations
- Project membership: invites, join requests, owner/member roles
- Basic gamification (progress tracking and vote-based scoring)
- Quest and translation export for distribution
- Notifications for project invites, join requests, and languoid link suggestions
- User profiles and email/password authentication
- Multilingual UI (English, Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, Tok Pisin, Indonesian, Nepali)
- Dark and light mode
- Bible and FIA (Faith in Action) content integration workflows
- AI translation suggestions (opt-in, experimental)
- Auto-transcription for audio translations (opt-in, experimental)

## In Development
- Language catalog linking: connecting custom language entries to standard ISO 639-3 codes
- Enhanced offline capabilities and sync reliability
- Advanced security measures for sensitive deployment environments
- Full gamification (leaderboards, badges, achievements)

## Planned Features
- **Real-Time Collaboration**: Simultaneous contribution tools and live project feeds
- **Advanced Gamification**: Full scoring system (rewards for submissions, validation, streaks), achievements and badges (milestones, quality awards, specialist recognition), leaderboards (global, project-specific, skill-based)
- **Peer-to-Peer Collaboration**: Local network sync for offline team use, conflict resolution
- **App Security Enhancements**: Advanced measures for sensitive environments (details available upon request)
- **API Integrations**: REST API, webhooks, and advanced export formats
- **Advanced Analytics**: Translation quality metrics, community health dashboards
- **Community Forums and Mentorship**: In-app discussion and guidance features
- **Expanded Multilingual UI Support**: Additional interface languages

For the latest updates, check our changelog or contact the team securely.
